admission/docs/configuration.md, before:

Configuration
=============

The configuration of `neco-admission` is a collection of webhooks configurations.
This collection is indexed by webhooks names.

ArgoCDApplicationValidator
-------------------------

The configuration of `ArgoCDApplicationValidator` is a map with the following keys.

| Name  | Type     | Description                                |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| rules | \[\]rule | A list of rules to enforce `spec.project`. |

Each rule represents the restriction on the applications in a certain repository.  
If neco-admission has no rule for a given App's repoURL, neco-admission denies the API request.

| Name             | Type       | Description                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| repository       | string     | A URL of the repository to be matched with `applications.spec.source.repoURL`.          |
| repositoryPrefix | string     | A URL prefix of the repositories to be matched with `applications.spec.source.repoURL`. |
| projects         | \[\]string | A list of `applications.spec.project`s allowed for the applications in the repository.  |

If both the `repository` and `repositoryPrefix` are specified, the rule is considered erroneous and ignored.

### `.git` suffix in `repository`

In GitHub, `.git` suffix is set at repository URL automatically. However, this suffix is optional. In fact, you can access the repository without the suffix.
In view of this, neco-admission compares the remote URL ignoring `.git` suffix.

### Example

```yaml
ArgoCDApplicationValidator:
  rules:
    - repository: https://github.com/cybozu-private/maneki-apps.git
      projects:
        - maneki
```

Commit message:

admission: Update validation of Application CRs for Argo CD 2.6
Argo CD 2.6 introduces the notation of multiple sources for
Application Custom Resources.
This commit updates the validation for the new notation.

Signed-off-by: morimoto-cybozu <kenji_morimoto@cybozu.co.jp>

admission/docs/configuration.md, after:

Configuration
=============

The configuration of `neco-admission` is a collection of webhooks configurations.
This collection is indexed by webhooks names.

ArgoCDApplicationValidator
-------------------------

The configuration of `ArgoCDApplicationValidator` is a map with the following keys.

| Name  | Type     | Description                                |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| rules | \[\]rule | A list of rules to enforce `spec.project`. |

Each rule represents the restriction on the applications in a certain repository.  
If neco-admission has no rule for a given App's repoURL, neco-admission denies the API request.

| Name             | Type       | Description                                                                            |
| ---------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| repository       | string     | A URL of the repository to be matched with `repoURL`s.                                 |
| repositoryPrefix | string     | A URL prefix of the repositories to be matched with `repoURL`s.                        |
| projects         | \[\]string | A list of `applications.spec.project`s allowed for the applications in the repository. |

`repoURL`s are specified as `applications.spec.source.repoURL` or `applications.spec.sources[].repoURL`.
All of `repoURL`s must allow the application's project.

If both the `repository` and `repositoryPrefix` are specified, the rule is considered erroneous and ignored.

### `.git` suffix in `repository`

In GitHub, `.git` suffix is set at repository URL automatically. However, this suffix is optional. In fact, you can access the repository without the suffix.
In view of this, neco-admission compares the remote URL ignoring `.git` suffix.

### Example

```yaml
ArgoCDApplicationValidator:
  rules:
    - repository: https://github.com/cybozu-private/maneki-apps.git
      projects:
        - maneki
```
